README.md, before:

LED Cube - Hardware
===================

_To be completed..._

Checkout the [main repository](https://github.com/francoisgeorgy/led-cube) to get more information about the LED Cube.

BOM
---

See [BOM.md](BOM.md).

Brackets and chassis design
---------------------------

There's an ongoing onShape design available [here](https://cad.onshape.com/documents/eb233c4f247d5269fe5ad74c/w/e5c8d36a0c3e44b3f1d693f6/e/4bf935a9030cdb6dc0eedcf4?renderMode=0&uiState=65ca1be860cfac3fed548dd4).

This design is not final and will evolve. The main change is that the main chassis (which houses the RPi and the batteries)
will no longer be fixed with screws but with magnets. 

Long term goal: 100% screw-free assembly, using magnets only.

3D print
--------

I printed everything with https://jlcpcb.com/

### Corner brackets : 

- STL : [LED-Cube-corner-bracket-v1.stl](3d-print%2FLED-Cube-corner-bracket-v1.stl).
- 3D Technology: MJF
- Material: PA12-HP Nylon
- Colors: -
- Surface Finish: Color :-Dyed Black

### Main chassis : 

- STL : [LED-Cube-base-support.stl](3d-print%2FLED-Cube-base-support.stl)
- 3D Technology: SLS
- Material: 3201PA-F Nylon
- Colors: Black
- Surface Finish: No

This chassis can not be used as-is. You'll have to cut the four corner brackets and fix the chassis with magnets instead of screws. 

I'm designing a new chassis. I will update this page as soon as it is ready.

Panels connections
------------------

![panels-chains.jpg](images%2Fpanels-chains.jpg)

The panels are connected as 2 chains or 3 panels. 

Each chain is connected to the Hub75 RGB interface. The third RGB interface connector is not used. 

Using only 2 of the 3 available Hub75 interface leave some GPIO free to be used for I2C sensors (accelerometer, etc.)

If we had used all 3 Hub75 chains, then there would be no GPIO signal available.

If, however, you wish to use the 3 available Hub75 channels, then there would always be the possibility of using the 
Raspberry Pi's USB ports to communicate with external sensors.

Power distribution
------------------

![power-distribution.jpg](images%2Fpower-distribution.jpg)

Commit message:

LED module datasheet and warning about mechanical dimensions.

README.md, after:

LED Cube - Hardware
===================

_To be completed..._

Checkout the [main repository](https://github.com/francoisgeorgy/led-cube) to get more information about the LED Cube.

BOM
---

See [BOM.md](BOM.md).

Brackets and chassis design
---------------------------

> **Warning**
Please note: all mechanical dimensions are only valid for the LED panels I used. Other panels will most likely have 
different specifications, particularly regarding the location of the mounting holes. Measure your panels before you 
begin 3D printing and assembly.

There's an ongoing onShape design available [here](https://cad.onshape.com/documents/eb233c4f247d5269fe5ad74c/w/e5c8d36a0c3e44b3f1d693f6/e/4bf935a9030cdb6dc0eedcf4?renderMode=0&uiState=65ca1be860cfac3fed548dd4).

This design is not final and will evolve. The main change is that the main chassis (which houses the RPi and the batteries)
will no longer be fixed with screws but with magnets. 

Long term goal: 100% screw-free assembly, using magnets only.

3D print
--------

I printed everything with https://jlcpcb.com/

### Corner brackets : 

- STL : [LED-Cube-corner-bracket-v1.stl](3d-print%2FLED-Cube-corner-bracket-v1.stl)
- 3D Technology: MJF
- Material: PA12-HP Nylon
- Colors: -
- Surface Finish: Color :-Dyed Black

### Main chassis : 

- STL : [LED-Cube-base-support.stl](3d-print%2FLED-Cube-base-support.stl)
- 3D Technology: SLS
- Material: 3201PA-F Nylon
- Colors: Black
- Surface Finish: No

This chassis can not be used as-is. You'll have to cut the four corner brackets and fix the chassis with magnets instead of screws. 

I'm designing a new chassis. I will update this page as soon as it is ready.

Panels connections
------------------

![panels-chains.jpg](images%2Fpanels-chains.jpg)

The panels are connected as 2 chains or 3 panels. 

Each chain is connected to the [Hub75 RGB interface](https://www.electrodragon.com/product/rgb-matrix-panel-drive-board-for-raspberry-pi-v2/). The third RGB interface connector is not used. 

Using only 2 of the 3 available Hub75 interface leave some GPIO free to be used for I2C sensors (accelerometer, etc.)

If we had used all 3 Hub75 chains, then there would be no GPIO signal available.

If, however, you wish to use the 3 available Hub75 channels, then there would always be the possibility of using the 
Raspberry Pi's USB ports to communicate with external sensors.

Power distribution
------------------

![power-distribution.jpg](images%2Fpower-distribution.jpg)

The mini DC-DC step-down converters are rated at 4A max. That's barely enough to drive 4 panels. One single panel can
draw as much as 4A when displaying white (RGB 255,255,255) at max brightness.

See the [panel datasheet](datasheet%2FCoreman%20LED%20Panel%205407_Indoor-P2.5-32S-64x64-SMD2020-4x45_degree.pdf) for 
more info about the power consumption.

We could use the same mini DC-DC converter for powering the Raspberry Pi. But, for convenience, I used another type 
of DC-DC converter which is directly equipped with a USB-C connector.
